Requirements for Inference Service v0.1 RSNA 2021 (#3)
Project-MONAI/monai-deploy-app-server: components/inference-service/requirements.md

## Overview
As data scientists & applications developers build AI models they need a way to deploy these applications in production. MONAI Inference Service will be used to deploy a MONAI application. This proposal documents the requirements for the MONAI Inference Service (MIS).

## Goal
The goal for this proposal is to enlist, prioritize and provide clarity on the requirements for MIS. Developers working on different software modules in MIS SHALL use this specification as a guideline when designing and implementing software for the Service.

## Success Criteria

> MIS SHALL enable clients to communicate with it via a REST based RPC API.

Reviewer: maybe `MIS SHALL provide a REST based RCP API for client to communicate with` ?

wording things correctly is hard 😔

> Clients SHALL be able to register the configuration of a [MONAI Application Packages(MAP)](https://github.com/Project-MONAI/monai-deploy/blob/main/guidelines/monai-application-package.md#manifests) with MIS. 

Reviewer: I do think any of the requirements for MIS should start with `Clients SHALL`. These are requirements for MIS, not for clients.

maybe `MIS SHALL support configuration of the MONAI Application Package (MAP) used to service inference requests.`?

> Clients SHALL be able to submit a inference request to the server for running a job corresponding to a MAP along with an input dataset. 

Reviewer: again, let's not `Clients SHALL` anything - we don't control them.

> MIS SHALL service inference requests one at a time.

Reviewer: coming back to this, I feel like this is more of a limitation and it is not a requirement.

perhaps we should append a `## Limitations` section to this document?

MIS SHALL return inference results as part of the response to the originating inference request.

## Requirements

### Support for Specific MONAI Workloads

> MIS SHALL support [MONAI workloads](https://github.com/Project-MONAI/monai-deploy/blob/main/guidelines/monai-workloads.md#clinical-use-cases) which can be completed within the timeframe of a single HTTP request/response.

Reviewer: this is my mistake, I gave you an incorrect URL.

here is the correct URL: https://github.com/Project-MONAI/monai-deploy/blob/main/guidelines/monai-workloads.md#synchronous-computational-workload

> ### Support for Specific MONAI Workloads
> MIS SHALL support [MONAI workloads](https://github.com/Project-MONAI/monai-deploy/blob/main/guidelines/monai-workloads.md#clinical-use-cases) which can be completed within the timeframe of a single HTTP request/response.

Reviewer 2: Some of the workloads outlined in that document cannot be completed within a single HTTP request (e.g. large scale batch inference). Is this the intention:
```suggestion
### Support for Specific MONAI Workloads
MIS SHALL support those [MONAI workloads](https://github.com/Project-MONAI/monai-deploy/blob/main/guidelines/monai-workloads.md#clinical-use-cases) that can be completed within the timeframe of a single HTTP request/response.
```

Author: Updated workloads

### Deployable on MONAI Operating Environments
MIS SHALL run on Staging Server and Production Server environments as defined in [MONAI Operating Environments](https://github.com/Project-MONAI/monai-deploy/blob/main/guidelines/MONAI-Operating-Environments.md).

### API Interface
MIS SHALL provide a REST based RPC API which utilizes the functionality of the HTTP transport.

### Consistent and Robust Logging

> MIS SHALL provide consistent and robust logging about it's operations.

Reviewer: grammar: `it's` => `its`

> MIS SHALL provide consistent and robust logging about it's operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MIS SHALL provide consistent and robust logging about its operations.
```
Should there be some requirement about error handling of exceptions that occur during the execution of the MAP. What is returned in this scenario?

### Register single MAP configuration before MIS startup

> MIS SHALL allow Clients to register the configuration of one MAP before MIS is started.

Reviewer: nit: `Clients` => `clients`

and maybe replace `register the configuration of one MAP before MIS is started.` with `provide MAP configuration as part of MIS' deployment configuration.`

### Fulfill an inference request with uploaded dataset

> MIS SHALL fulfill an inference request with uploaded input dataset.

Reviewer 2: Again, "dataset" is vague. Imaging study/series? Does uploaded mean that the input data are in the payload of the request? I'm not sure that that's the best way to ingest input data, probably it should be pulled from a PACS directly

Author: We have Informatics Gateway to ingest data from PACs. There is then a Workflow Manager which uploads this data ingested data from PACs to Inferencing Service.

### Fulfill one inference request at a time

> MIS SHALL run only fulfill one inference request at a time.

Reviewer: again - limitation, not requirement.

if we could fulfill multiple in parallel we would (and we maybe able to in v0.2 or later)

> MIS SHALL run only fulfill one inference request at a time.

Reviewer 2: Not really sure why this is a requirement. Is this just v1?

Author: Moving from requirement to a v1 limitation.

### Provision resources for an inference request

> MIS SHALL provision CPU, memory, and GPU resources for an inference request as defined in the configuration.

Reviewer: I think requirements requires another requirement about MIS utilizing Kubernetes resource management (limits, etc.)

Author: That would be implementation details, isn't it?

### Provide status of inference request

> MIS SHALL provide status of inference request as a part of the response to the request.

Reviewer: how? do you mean the HTTP Error Code?
that's required by using HTTP and is covered by `MIS SHALL provide a REST based RPC API which utilizes the functionality of the HTTP transport.`

do you mean something else/different?

### Consistent and Robust Logging
MIS SHALL provide consistent and robust logging about it's operations. MIS SHALL provide a default logging level along with a more verbose logging level.

### Register single MAP for entire lifecycle
MIS SHALL allow Clients to register the config of one MAP during it's lifecyle.

### Run job with uploaded dataset
MIS SHALL run a job with uploaded input dataset.

### Run one job at a time
MIS SHALL run only only one job at a time.

### Provision resources for jobs
MIS SHALL provision CPU, memory, and GPU resources for jobs as defined in the MAP.

### Monitor application progress, completion and failures
MIS SHALL track job execution progress, completion, and failures.

### Provide status of completed job
MIS SHALL allow Clients to retrieve status of run job as a part of the response of job submission request.

### Provide results of completed job
MIS SHALL allow Clients to download results of completed jobs as a part of the response of job submission request.

### Cleanup inputs associated with a completed job

> MIS SHALL cleanup inputs and outputs associated with a job that has finished running.

Reviewer 3: +1. We should add them to the Backlog though, for 0.2 or 0.3
